---
layout: post
title: technicals with jekyll
---

so I started this site using raw html cus I figured I could incorporate
other stuff later if it was helpful. then I was like, "ok, how do I
include my nav bar without having to constantly update it, and so I used
chatgpt to tell me how (because I was too lazy to google search) and I
found jekyll. apparently I could've used JS includes but I went with
jekyll because it looked like it might be more helpful for "muh
scalability" or whatever (lame grifter speak). anyway. also I updated my
repository to be a lot more organized. Basically this lets me focus more
on perfecting the content on each page and less worrying about keeping
everything up to date. as im writing this, im still manually writing each
article post and updating them like that, but I think Jekyll is
technically truly meant for like, people who are running blogs. So I
should probably figure out how to use Jekyll's blogging and markdown
system to make this stuff work a bit better. But I don't want to lose the
personality of hand-designing this website over time. My professional
version of this website can be soulless or whatever (because corporate
everything sucks) but I want this version to be personal. Another cool
thing is that jekyll allows me to have cool perma-links without the .html
at the end which is very cool and looks better than the ugly old-ish
links. I'm not a retro internet larper like a lot of people but I think
some parts of the aesthetic are cool but that part is totally not.

some notes for future people: build a jekyll with

`exec jekyll build name`

and run your jekyll with

`exec jekyll serve`

another note for future me, this is starting to look genuinely hideous.
It's just a huge block of text that is super unreadable. even I don't want
to read it. I gotta css or like markdown it or something.

note for past me. I made it to use the jekyll md system so once I get good at writing markdown this will probably look phenomenal.

also cool trick with jekyll with a codeblock from my site:

{% raw %}

```html
{% for post in site.blog reversed %}
<article>
  <h2><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></h2>
  <p><em>{{ post.date | date: "%B %-d, %Y" }}</em></p>
  <p>{{ post.content }}</p>
</article>
{% endfor %}
```

{% endraw %}
this for loop will go through everything in the \_blog section and go ahead and render it all using the template i set up!! very neat.

also these are called "liquid tags??"

also when writing codeblocks you gotta surround them in "raw" and "endraw" liquid tags

another cool thing is these ifs. in my \_layouts/post.html, i have this so i don't have to have two different html things. very cool
{% raw %}

```html
<!-- Back link -->
{% if page.collection == 'blog' %}
<p><a href="/blog/">← back to blog</a></p>
{% elsif page.collection == 'dev-blog' %}
<p><a href="/dev-blog/">← back to dev? blog</a></p>
{% endif %}
```

{% endraw %}
